economic,Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has alleged that there is a huge scam behind the scrapping of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 notes.
“In the name of tackling corruption, a scam is being carried out on a large scale. Some evidence has to come to light and TV channels are showing it. It is not something new that I’m saying,” Mr. Kejriwal told reporters at a press briefing on Saturday.

economic,On November 8, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 notes will not be legal tenders any more, all friends and BJP people, who actually have all the black money, were informed prior. Those who had large amounts of black money got enough to time to take care of it, he said.

economic,In the last three months, money has been deposited in all banks on a large scale, running into thousand of crores of rupees. This arouses suspicion,” he alleged. “When the deposits in quarters before that were in the negative or there was no growth, how did suddenly such high deposits were made between July and September quarter? Whose money is this and how did such large scale deposits happen?” he asked.

economic,It is the common man who is suffering due to this as those who have black money, have already done the setting. New notes are being home delivered to them for a commission,” he alleged. “There are huge queues outside banks, are there any big industrialists or black marketers in the queue? No. Shopkeepers, rickshaw pullers, auto rickshaw driver, farmers and labourers are in the queue. Do they have all the black money?” he said.

economic,Mr. Kejriwal alleged that demonetisation has led to a system of commissions and provided a fillip to black money instead. “Gold rates have gone up and black money has gone up instead of decreasing,” he said.

economic,“If the government had completely scrapped Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 500 notes, we would have supported you.” By introducing Rs. 2,000 notes, black money problem would not be taken care of.

economic,“People are unhappy and poor people have to pay commission to convert their hard earned savings. There is going to be a 200 per cent penalty on deposits above Rs. 2.5 lakh. You will take penalty from poor people who have saved Rs.. 5 to Rs. 6 lakh over 10 years for their daughter’s wedding? God will not spare you,” he said.

economic,Mr. Kejriwal also alleged that the real black money is in Swiss bank accounts, which Mr. Modi had promised to bring back before becoming prime minister but had not done anything on this issue since then. He has those account numbers and if the government wants to take action against black money, they should arrest these account holders immediately, the AAP leader said..

economic,Keywords: demonetisation move, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Narendra Modi

economic,Long serpentine queues were witnessed at bank branches for the third straight day across the country. Similarly, people were seen impatiently waiting outside ATMs to withdraw money.

national,People, including the elderly and women, queued up to get currency needed to meet their daily expenses.

national,To add to the misery still half of the ATMs were non-functional, making people get agitated about the lack of infrastructure preparedness for the note exchange programme.

national,There are about 2 lakh ATMs across the country.

national,There were reports of many elderly people collapsing while waiting in long queues.

national,According to bankers, the situation is unlikely to change for some more time, may be another 8-10 days.

national,They also expressed their apprehension with regard to chances of crowd becoming unruly for which they feel banks don’t have adequate security arrangements.

national,Reports of chaos and scuffle at bank branches and ATMs streamed in from different parts of the country on Friday.

national,There were also reports of heated exchanges between hassled customers and overworked bank officials at several branches.

national,Since the recalibration for higher denomination of valid notes is being done for ATMs, the stock of low value Rs 100 got over very fast because of the huge demand, said a banker.

national,Taking into consideration, problems faced by people, the government on Thursday extended use of old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes for paying household utility bills, fuel, taxes and fees as well as purchases from co-operative stores by another 72 hours till November 14.

It started off as a rumour in Old Delhi but by evening it turned into a harsh reality as salt was not available in most markets in the city.




national,“I don’t know how it started, but salt, which is usually sold for 25 a kg, was available for Rs 50 by afternoon. When the rumour spread by evening, it was available for only Rs. 250 and later not available at all,” said Haji Mian Fayyazuddin, a social activist in the Jama Masjid area.

national,With reports of salt running out, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to people not to panic. He said it was just a rumour. “Some people are spreading false rumours that sugar and salt aren’t available. This is wrong. Anyone caught hoarding basic commodities will not be spared (sic),” he tweeted.

national,The Delhi government’s food and civil supplies department, along with sub-divisional commissioners, inspected markets. Food Minister Imran Hussain held a meeting with officials late on Friday evening to discuss steps to curb hoarding of salt and sugar.

national,People claimed that the rumour started after the Income Tax department's searches in Delhi’s wholesale markets such as Chandni Chowk, Khari Baoli, Sadar Bazar and Gandhi Nagar on Thursday. These markets were closed on Friday.

national,,By evening, salt was not available even in Okhla. I had sent my son to check but our local grocer told him that salt was not available in the entire area. I went to Greater Kailash and couldn’t get it there as well,” said Jalil Ahmed, an accountant and a resident of Batla House.

national,Even in markets such as Khan Market, Greater Kailash M-block market and Laxmi Nagar, salt wasn’t available. “Messages on social media were making the rounds in the day about shortage of salt. I went to Khan Market to get 5 kg salt as a precautionary measure but it wasn’t available,” said Nimesh Kumar, a photographer.

national,Locals fear that even milk, sugar, oil and other basic commodities will be affected as local grocers don’t have cash to buy new stock.

national,Rumour of salt shortage also hit parts of Uttar Pradesh, leading people to buy the essential commodity in panic and sending prices to soar to Rs. 200 a kg in Moradabad.

national,District Magistrate Suhair Bin Sagheer said reports of shortage were not true. “There were rumours that salt will be sold at higher rates. This led to panic among people today. Salt is not going to be sold for even one rupee more,” he said.

national,Meerut District Magistrate B. Chandrakala appealed to people not go by the rumour.

national,Taking cognisance of the rumours, Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav directed officials to deal strictly with rumour mongers and appealed to the public to not buy salt unnecessarily.


national,Tension prevailed in southeast Delhi’s Jamia Nagar area, as residents hurled stones at police buses amid rumours of shortage of salt and hike in prices of the essential commodities. As the rumour spread, scores of people stepped out on the Kalindi Kunj-Jamia Nagar road and vandalised buses, a senior police officer said. They also threw stones at the police buses which were rushed to the spot to control the situation. Four policemen have been reportedly injured in the incident, he said. While police were trying to calm things down, a rumour spread that a trader was shot at during a fight due to shortage of salt, he said.

national,Police placated the residents and brought the situation under control. Additional force from a neighbouring police stations was also called in, he said.

The Union government on Saturday dismissed the rumours of shortage of salt in the market, saying adequate stocks are available across the country, including Uttar Pradesh, Delhi-NCR and Tamil Nadu.




national, The Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP), which comes under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, in a series of tweets said there was sufficient stocks of salt in the country.

national, “Salt produced at Nawa and Phalodi from Rajasthan is supplied to Delhi. Refined salt is available in market at the rate of Rs 8-18 as a brand. Adequate edible salt has been supplied to Delhi & NCR areas by salt producers from Santalpur and Kharaghoda from Gujarat. There is no scarcity in Delhi,” it said.

national, Salt producers and suppliers from Tamil Nadu confirmed that there is no scarcity of salt in the entire State, it said, adding “no scarcity of salt and it is sold at normal rates in West Bengal“.

national, Adequate salt has been produced, stocked and being supplied in Gujarat, which produces 75 per cent of total salt in the country.

national, Commerce Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that “authorities are in the field and reporting back. No shortage”.

national, Rumours about shortage of salt triggered panic among people in areas like Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi and Maharshtra.

national,The Salt Commissioner’s organisation with its headquarters in Jaipur is under the DIPP.

State News - Kerala,The aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya has successfully completed its first routine maintenance, a 43-day short refit, at the Cochin Shipyard, and is at a high level of operational competence and preparedness, according to the ship’s Commanding Officer Captain Krishna Swaminathan.

State News - Kerala,The maiden dry-docking of the vessel after its induction into the Navy in November, 2013, had put to rest apprehensions about the feasibility of carrying out its first cycle of underwater maintenance within India, he told the media on board Vikramaditya,






State News - Kerala, The ship arrived in Kochi in early September, and was dry-docked at Cochin Shipyard on September 23 close on the heels of the soon-to-be-retired aircraft carrier INS Viraat was undocked following its decommissioning refit.

State News - Kerala,“After the first cycle of preventive maintenance, which involved a thorough inspection of the carrier’s underwater package, was over, the vessel was undocked on November 5. Vikramaditya, a steamship, has a large number of pipes and underwater openings. The hull plates that are in contact with the corrosive medium of seawater – all got inspected,” said Capt. Swaminathan.


State News - Kerala,The aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya has successfully completed its first routine maintenance, a 43-day short refit, at the Cochin Shipyard, and is at a high level of operational competence and preparedness, according to the ship’s Commanding Officer Captain Krishna Swaminathan.

State News - Kerala,The maiden dry-docking of the vessel after its induction into the Navy in November, 2013, had put to rest apprehensions about the feasibility of carrying out its first cycle of underwater maintenance within India, he told the media on board Vikramaditya,






State News - Kerala, The ship arrived in Kochi in early September, and was dry-docked at Cochin Shipyard on September 23 close on the heels of the soon-to-be-retired aircraft carrier INS Viraat was undocked following its decommissioning refit.

State News - Kerala,“After the first cycle of preventive maintenance, which involved a thorough inspection of the carrier’s underwater package, was over, the vessel was undocked on November 5. Vikramaditya, a steamship, has a large number of pipes and underwater openings. The hull plates that are in contact with the corrosive medium of seawater – all got inspected,” said Capt. Swaminathan.

State News - Kerala, The vessel, he said, added a great national capability, enhancing the image of the Navy. All systems, including the long range surface to air missile (LR-SAM), the close-in weapon system (CIWS), the main gun were all in place and the process of exploiting the capabilities of the carrier and its air arm had come a long way with the ship’s company and the systems integrating well.

State News - Kerala, To a question, Capt. Swaminathan said there were initial apprehensions about dry-docking the vessel in Kochi as there were technical challenges posed by the depth of the channel, which was eventually dredged to a desired level, and the length of the carrier overshot the yard’s dry-dock length by a few metres.

State News - Kerala, “We had to a do a lot of calculations and Cochin Shipyard, with its experience of taking care of Viraat through its operational life, has done a good job.”

State News - Kerala, Madhu S. Nair, Chairman and Managing Director of Cochin Shipyard, told The Hindu that concerted effort by all stakeholder agencies —the shipyard, various units of the Navy, the Dredging Corporation of India, the Cochin Port and the ICTT, Vallarpadam — enabled it to complete the refit well on time. “More than project management, a sense of commitment and pride helped everyone work in tandem to do the job, a first for all.” Ahead of the induction day (November 16) of the carrier (with the pennant number R33), 33 personnel from the ship’s company carried out a 33-km run on Friday morning.

Vikramaditya will soon depart Kochi on operational deployment.
